psfig/tex -- TeX macros for the inclusion of postscript figures

==================================================================

COPYRIGHT NOTICE

All software, documentation, and related files in this distribution of
psfig/tex are Copyright 1993 Trevor J. Darrell

Permission is granted for use and non-profit distribution of psfig/tex 
providing that this notice be clearly maintained, but the right to
distribute any portion of psfig/tex for profit or as part of any commercial
product is specifically reserved for the author.

Thanks to Ned Batchelder, Greg Hager, J. Daniel Smith, Tom Rokicki,
Robert Russell, George V. Reilly, Ken McGlothlen, Dr. Baron Grey,
Gerhard Tobermann and all others who have contributed code and
comments to this project!

==================================================================

NEW IN VERSION 1.10

- Support for OzTeX (derived from Baron Grey's OzTeX version of psfig)

- New searching path algorithm (from Gerhard Tobermann); looks in
  multiple directories; looks for file.ps before file.ps.bb...

- Many small bug fixes (underscore in draft mode, angle/clip interaction)

- Improved documentation and man page

==================================================================

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

Psfig/tex uses \special calls to manipulate the PostScript environment
within a document, and include figure files. To use psfig, you must
therefore be using a postscript device for your output. This version
of psfig/tex works with the unix "dvips" PostScript driver, which is
available from labrea.stanford.edu, and with OzTeX.  

It may also work with the ArborText "dvips" driver, and with the
"dvi2ps" written by Tony Li <tli@sargar.usc.edy>; see the
"unsupported" directory.

==================================================================

INSTALLATION

To install psfig, simply copy psfig.sty into a directory on your TeX
include path (e.g. /usr/lib/tex/macros).

If you are using OzTeX, change the driver line at the top of
the psfig.sty file to read
	\def\setDriver{\OzTeXDriver} 
instead of 
	\def\setDriver{\DvipsDriver} 


A users guide and manual page can be found in the "doc" directory.

For tips on dealing with Macintosh postscript, see the directory
"unsupported/macdemo/README".

==================================================================

BUGS

If you use the letter style, make sure you include the psfig style
first.

If you have an old version of dvips, you may need to make a patch to
use the compressed figure option, and to handle magnification
correctly.  The files "unsupported/dospecial.[patch,frag]" contain a
patch and a corresponding code fragment for dvips' dospecial.c file.
To apply the patch copy dospecial.patch into your dvips directory and
run "patch < dospecial.patch", and then recompile. "dospcial.frag"
contains the modified portion of the code as it should appear in the
patched file.  To use magnification with psfig and dvips, you need to
change the line
	/magscale false def
in special.pro to 
	/magscale true def
in order to have the figures scaled correctly.



